"Senator Santorum's claims to be a Washington outsider are at odds with the facts. After serving as a lobbyist in Pennsylvania before running for Congress, Santorum became a go-to guy for D.C. lobbyists while he served in the Senate. If conservatives are looking for an outsider who will shake things up in Washington, Rick Santorum's long record of 'taking one for the team' should give them pause." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign SpokespersonSenator Santorum Vehemently Denies Ever Being A Lobbyist, But He Indeed Was A Lobbyist In Pennsylvania Before Running For Congress:Santorum Has Declared That He "Never Any Did Lobbying Or Even Anything Close To Lobbying."SANTORUM: "I was not a lobbyist. I absolutely was not a lobbyist. I never did any lobbying or even anything close to lobbying." (CNN's "The Situation Room," 2/24/12)New York Times: In The Late 1980's, Santorum Was "A Lobbyist In Harrisburg.""By the late 1980s, as a lobbyist in Harrisburg, he was contemplating running for office. Friends urged him to start out small, but Mr. Santorum wanted to go to Washington."  (Sheryl Gay Stolberg, "Santorum Rose Quickly From Reformer To Insider,"The New York Times, 1/19/12)"Though He Doesn't Advertise It, [Santorum] Also Worked As A Lobbyist In Harrisburg...""Santorum doesn't boast much of his legal career. At Kirkpatrick, Santorum told a radio talk show, he did 'business law — tax work and municipal bond work and sewer bonds' and not much trial work. Though he doesn't advertise it, he also worked as a lobbyist in Harrisburg, representing a mix of clients that included the World Wrestling Federation." (David L. Michelmore, "Santorum Has Built A Reputation On Impatience," Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 9/11/94)While In Washington, Santorum Was The Senate's Go-To Guy For K Street Lobbyists:Senator Santorum Set Up Regular Meetings With Lobbyists."The meetings, says a Santorum aide, give GOP Senators an opportunity to say to the lobbyists: 'This is our message-what are the ways that you can help us address it?' He adds: 'It also gives us a chance to hear back from them about their priorities.'" (Louis Jacobson and Brody Mullins, "The GOP's New Bridge To K Street," The National Journal, 5/5/01)National Journal: "Santorum Held His First Meeting In Early March [2001] With Such K Street Heavy Hitters As Jack Abramoff..."(Louis Jacobson and Brody Mullins, "The GOP's New Bridge To K Street," The National Journal, 5/5/01)Santorum's Meetings Gave Lobbyists "Face Time" With Senators."A Santorum aide explains that the Senator wants to involve associations and corporate offices in the GOP's 'message' offensive and is aiming 'to develop relationships with folks downtown who generally share our objectives legislatively and who can help us communicate our issues.' For their part, lobbyists get face time with lawmakers. 'It's unfiltered advice-not tilted by the staff,' says one lobbyist. 'You're hearing stuff directly' from members." (Louis Jacobson and Brody Mullins, "The GOP's New Bridge To K Street," The National Journal, 5/5/01)Lobbyists Said Santorum Understood How To Play The K Street Game."Lobbyists say they are glad to have Santorum running this outreach effort. He is young, yet experienced-and he is fresh off a solid re-election victory in pro-labor Pennsylvania, which went for Vice President Al Gore in the presidential race. Santorum cut his teeth in the House, where GOP efforts to collaborate with K Street have been going on for years. 'You have to do more than understand — you have to carry it out,' a lobbyist says. 'He's given every indication that he's doing that.'" (Louis Jacobson and Brody Mullins, "The GOP's New Bridge To K Street," The National Journal, 5/5/01)Senator Santorum's Lobbyist Breakfasts Were Described As "The Insider's Insider Meeting" — Quite A Feat For Someone Who Says He Was "An Outsider When He Was Inside" Washington:Santorum Hosted Twice-Monthly Lawmaker-Lobbyist Breakfasts That Were Called "Among The Most Exclusive In Washington.""The food isn't much: coffee, Danish, chocolate doughnuts. But the breakfast meeting that U.S. Sen. Rick Santorum, Pennsylvania's junior Republican, hosts twice a month in the Capitol is among the most exclusive in Washington. Sitting in are some of the city's elite lobbyists... They talk about hot congressional races. They get briefed on legislation by Santorum and Senate leaders." (Peter Nicholas, "Santorum's Sessions Are A Hot Ticket," The Philadelphia Inquirer, 8/12/02)One Lobbyist, On The Santorum-Hosted Breakfasts: "It's The Insider's Insider Meeting.""The breakfasts serve mutual interests. Lobbyists get prized face time with Senate leaders and White House aides. 'They'll give an update,' said David Urban, former chief of staff to Sen. Arlen Specter (R., Pa.) and now a lobbyist with the American Continental Group. ''Here's what we think of prescription drugs. Here's what we think we'll end up with. The Democrats will do this. We want to do that. Here's where we think it'll end up.' Sometimes they're right. Sometimes they're wrong. But it's better to be in the room than not. ... It's the insider's insider meeting.'" (Peter Nicholas, "Santorum's Sessions Are A Hot Ticket," The Philadelphia Inquirer, 8/12/02)Santorum Now Claims He Was "Someone Who Was Inside Washington Who Was An Outsider When He Was Inside.""The former Pennsylvania senator told the Maricopa County GOP that he may have been in the House and Senate for 16 years, but he was an 'outsider' the whole time he was in Washington ... 'But someone who was inside Washington who was an outsider when he was inside ... because when we came to Congress, we came and we shook things up to its very core,' he said." (Shushannah Walshe, "Santorum Says He Was a Washington 'Outsider' While He Was an 'Insider',"ABCNews.com, 2/21/12)
