"When Rick Santorum first went to Washington, he was a critic of congressional pay raises, special interest money, and budget deficits. He also attacked his opponent for moving to the D.C. suburbs. But during his sixteen years on Capitol Hill, Rick Santorum became what he ran against. We can't change Washington by electing someone who let Washington change him." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign SpokespersonCandidate Santorum Attacked His Opponent For Congressional Pay Raises, But Congressman/Senator Santorum Later Voted For Three Of His Own:In His First House Campaign, Candidate Santorum Attacked His Opponent For Supporting A Congressional Pay Raise."By late evening, only three House Democratic incumbents had lost, Dyson of Maryland, Rep. Doug Walgren of Pennsylvania and Rep. Robert Kastenmeier of Wisconsin. Walgren's opponent, attorney Rick Santorum, won by attacking his support for the congressional pay raise and his acceptance of special interest money — a theme used by many challengers." ("Democrats' Grip On Congress Increases,"Los Angeles Times, 11/7/90)Santorum, In 1990: "Whatever The Salary Is When I Walk Into Office On January Whatever, That's What I'll Take. I Won't Take One Additional Penny For As Long As I'm In Congress."("No Raises For Rick,"The Associated Press, 11/8/90)Congressman/Senator Santorum Later Voted Three Times To Raise His Own Pay."Santorum also supported raising Congressional pay at least three times, in 2001, 2002, and 2003." ("2012 Presidential White Paper #4: Former Senator Rick Santorum,"Club For Growth, 6/6/11)Candidate Santorum Attacked His Opponent Over Special Interest Money, But Congressman/Senator Santorum Took More Than Any Other Member In 2006:In His First House Campaign, Candidate Santorum Attacked His Opponent For Taking Special Interest Money."Attorney Rick Santorum shocked seven-term Democratic Rep. Doug Walgren by hitting anti-incumbent themes like the Congressional pay raise and special-interest political money in his campaign." ("Democrats Retain Control Of House,"The Associated Press, 11/7/90)In 2006, Congressman/Senator Santorum Took More Money From Lobbyists Than Anyone Else.Santorum took nearly $500,000 from lobbyists in the 2006 cycle, according to the Center for Responsive Politics — far more than any other candidate or member of Congress during the same period. (Center for Responsive Politics,www.opensecrets.org, 2/21/12)Candidate Santorum Attacked His Opponent For Moving To The D.C. Suburbs, But Congressman/Senator Santorum Did The Exact Same Thing:While Running For Congress In 1990, Candidate Santorum Attacked His Opponent For Living In "The Wealthiest Area Of Virginia" Rather Than In Pennsylvania."A Republican challenger is claiming home is not where Rep. Doug Walgren's (D-Pa) heart is in a Brabender Cox Direct TV spot. ... Santorum's spot is the essence of simplicity. Strange music plays while a picture of an attractive white house is shown. The announcer says, 'There's something strange about this house.' The reason is because Walgren lives in McLean, which is 'the wealthiest area of Virginia' rather than his suburban district. 'Maybe that's why he voted for a pay raise seven times,' the announcer argues." ("Walgren Slammed In Opponent's Spots For Living In McLean,"Roll Call, 11/5/90)"Santorum Sold His Home In Another Pittsburgh Suburb ... And Moved To Virginia In 1995, When He Became A Senator."("Santorum Says He Will Pull Children Out Of Cyber-School,"The Associated Press, 11/18/04)Candidate Santorum Said He Was Concerned About Budget Deficits, But Congressman/Senator Santorum Was No Longer A Deficit Hawk:After Winning Election To The House, Santorum Said His Major Legislative Goal Was To Reform The Budget And Get The Deficit Under Control.MODERATOR: "Rick Santorum, what's your major legislative goal?" SANTORUM: "Well, I think the focus again of what the people were telling me during the campaign is that we really need budget reform. We really need to get our situation under control here as far as the deficit. So that is something that I'm principally concerned about." (CSPAN's "New Members Roundtable," 12/13/90)Congressman/Senator Santorum Had A Different Stance: "I Came To The House As A Real Deficit Hawk, But I Am No Longer A Deficit Hawk.""Confronted with projected deficits until fiscal 2007, senior GOP lawmakers are backing away from long-standing rhetoric about the government's duty to live within its means. 'I came to the House as a real deficit hawk, but I am no longer a deficit hawk,' said Sen. Rick Santorum (R-Pa.). 'I'll tell you why. I had to spend the surpluses. Deficits make it easier to say no.'" (Hans Nichols, "Leadership Lines Up With Deficit Doves,"The Hill, 2/5/03)By The Time Congressman/Senator Santorum Went Home To Ask For Another Term, Pennsylvanians Knew He Had "Gone Washington":"Santorum's Last Race Ended In A Landslide Defeat In His Home State That Raises Questions About His National Electability.""Despite being elected twice as a Congressman, then twice again as a senator from Pennsylvania, Santorum's last race ended in a landslide defeat in his home state that raises questions about his national electability. Indeed, he was trounced in 2006 by 18 points by Bob Casey Jr., the largest margin of defeat for an incumbent since 1980." (Tim Mak, "Rick Santorum's Top 10 Problems,"Politico, 2/8/12)Santorum Was Defeated By A "Stunning Margin" And "Lost Almost Every Region Of The State And Almost Every Demographic Group.""Santorum's loss was a long time coming. By the time of his nearly 18-point loss — a stunning margin for a two-term incumbent — he had also alienated women voters, moderate Republicans and independents — not to mention the Democrats he had once won over. He lost almost every region of the state and almost every demographic group, including the blue collar workers he singles out on the campaign trail in 2012." (Carrie Budoff Brown, "Landslide '06 Loss Undercuts Santorum's Bid,"Politico, 1/5/12)The Associated Press: "Even Some Conservatives Were Frustrated ... [And] Saw Him As Too Much A Part Of The Big-Spending Establishment.""By the time of his defeat as part of an anti-war, anti-incumbent tide, even some conservatives were frustrated with Santorum. Some saw him as too much a part of the big-spending establishment and others didn't like that he chose to endorse Arlen Specter, then a moderate Republican senator who years later would switch to the Democratic Party, over conservative Pat Toomey in the state's close 2004 Republican primary." (Andrew Miga, "Santorum Cites Appeal As Reliable Conservative,"The Associated Press, 12/31/11)
